README.md, before:

sk_power_monitor
================

Introduction
------------

`sk_power_monitor` is a simple power monitor for Raspberry Pi. It 
monitors a defined GPIO pin on the Raspberry Pi. If the pin goes
high for ten seconds, a shutdown is triggered. Using GPIO 3 is highly
recommended because that allows for automatic restarting when power
is restored (pulling GPIO 3 low powers on the device if it is powered
off).

The main use case for the script is to have the board powered via
a couple of super-capacitors. In the case power for the board is
disconnected, the supercaps are able to supply sufficient power
that the device is able to shut itself down in a controlled fashion.

Installation
------------

Until a proper `setup.py` file has been written, the executable needs 
to be manually installed. 

First, install the required dependency:

    sudo pip3 install RPi

Then, copy `sk_power_monitor` to `/usr/local/bin`. This should already
allow running the script. However, since calling `poweroff` requires
elevated privileges, it is done using `sudo`. Give your preferred user
permissions to call `poweroff` without a password by running `sudo visudo`
and adding the following line:

    pi ALL = NOPASSWD: /sbin/poweroff

Finally, to run the script automatically as a service, copy 
`sk_power_monitor.service` to `/etc/systemd/system`.


Usage
-----

To configure the monitor behavior, directly edit the script file.

Commit message:

add a comment about the sample circuit in README

README.md, after:

sk_power_monitor
================

Introduction
------------

`sk_power_monitor` is a simple power monitor for Raspberry Pi. It 
monitors a defined GPIO pin on the Raspberry Pi. If the pin goes
high for ten seconds, a shutdown is triggered. Using GPIO 3 is highly
recommended because that allows for automatic restarting when power
is restored (pulling GPIO 3 low powers on the device if it is powered
off).

The main use case for the script is to have the board powered via
a couple of super-capacitors. In the case power for the board is
disconnected, the supercaps are able to supply sufficient power
that the device is able to shut itself down in a controlled fashion.

A sample circuit fulfilling the purpose is presented in the `circuit`
subdirectory.

Installation
------------

Until a proper `setup.py` file has been written, the executable needs 
to be manually installed. 

First, install the required dependency:

    sudo pip3 install RPi

Then, copy `sk_power_monitor` to `/usr/local/bin`. This should already
allow running the script. However, since calling `poweroff` requires
elevated privileges, it is done using `sudo`. Give your preferred user
permissions to call `poweroff` without a password by running `sudo visudo`
and adding the following line:

    pi ALL = NOPASSWD: /sbin/poweroff

Finally, to run the script automatically as a service, copy 
`sk_power_monitor.service` to `/etc/systemd/system`.


Usage
-----

To configure the monitor behavior, directly edit the script file.
